---
layout: page
title: Future Work
permalink: /results/future-work/
---

Unlike my [previous project](https://klane.github.io/databall1), the predictions shown here represent a realistic betting scenario since only data from past games is used to make predictions. Prospective bettors would have made money during the 2016 season betting on every game according the the methodology outlined here. Since the models were only tested against the 2016 season, additional testing must be done to see how well this approach generalizes by predicting other seasons. I originally collected over/under lines, but have yet to experiment with predicting them. It is likely a similar challenge to predicting winners against the spread given the near [50/50 split](data-exploration.md) of games falling above and below the over/under line, but it would be another interesting problem to tackle. I am also interested in calculating stats relative to league average to attempt to control for league-wide changes in game strategy.

One major potential improvement to this analysis would be to use player stats instead of team stats to train the models. The absence of a team's best player due to injury or [rest](https://www.si.com/nba/2017/03/13/warriors-spurs-stephen-curry-kevin-durant-kawhi-leonard-player-rest) generally affects an NBA team more than teams from other sports, which would be reflected in the betting lines and the team's chance of winning. Models built using team stats would not pick up on this, but building a model using player stats from the players in each game's lineup would better account for this. This presents the additional difficulty of estimating team strength given game rosters. When players sit, we are forced to estimate how their teams will play in their absence. This involves predicting how the minutes they typically play will be distributed amongst their teammates and how well bench players will perform with added playing time, potentially with little data to aid decisions. In the event of trades and free agency, we need to predict how well players will fit in a new system, which [isn't always well](http://grantland.com/the-triangle/2015-nba-free-agency-3-point-shooter-danny-green-demarre-carroll/)
